My redesign of the DotChaser program utilizes encapsulation, information hiding, inheritance, and polymorphism. The Thing class, along with the TypeA, TypeB, and TypeC classes, illustrates polymorphism and inheritance because Thing is an abstract class and TypeA, TypeB, and TypeC all inherit from it. Thing also exemplifies information hiding as it has four protected variables which are then utilized in the TypeA, TypeB, and TypeC classes. In addition, Thing has public methods that all child classes would use except maybeTurn as that is an abstract method for each child class to implement differently. The ThingList class is a good example of encapsulation, information hiding, and polymorphism because it features a nested private Node class. Each node in ThingList has a data variable that can reference an object from the Thing hierarchy whether it is TypeA, TypeB, or TypeC.

My new OOP design makes developing TypeC easy because I can utilize fields and methods I have already made and use them in a new way to get a new resulting object. It was also very to integrate TypeC into DotChaser since all objects belonging to type Thing would automatically be placed into ThingList and be printed/moved each round.

The clearest example in my code of a polymorphic function call is in the moveAll(Random rand) function definition in ThingList.java. There, it goes through the list of all Thing objects in the linked list and utilizes their maybeTurn() function. Each Thing object in the linked list is either TypeA, TypeB, or TypeC with each their own uniquely defined maybeTurn() methods. 

